
---
Date: 24 Feb, 2023
Tags: dsa
fileClass: Problem
---
Topics:: 
Difficulty::  Medium
Understanding:: 
## Problem: 
 There are some spherical balloons taped onto a flat wall that represents the XY-plane. The balloons are represented as a 2D integer array `points` where `points[i] = [x`<sub>start</sub>`, x`<sub>end</sub>`]` denotes a balloon whose **horizontal diameter** stretches between `x<sub>start</sub>` and `x`<sub>end</sub>. You do not know the exact y-coordinates of the balloons.

Arrows can be shot up **directly vertically** (in the positive y-direction) from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with `x`<sub>start</sub> and `x`<sub>end</sub> is **burst** by an arrow shot at `x` if `x`<sub>start</sub>` <= x <= x`<sub>end</sub>. There is **no limit** to the number of arrows that can be shot. A shot arrow keeps traveling up infinitely, bursting any balloons in its path.

Given the array `points`, return _the **minimum** number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons_.

**Example 1:**

	Input: points = [[10,16],[2,8],[1,6],[7,12]]
	Output: 2
	Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
	- Shoot an arrow at x = 6, bursting the balloons [2,8] and [1,6].
	- Shoot an arrow at x = 11, bursting the balloons [10,16] and [7,12].

**Example 2:**

	Input: points = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
	Output: 4
	Explanation: One arrow needs to be shot for each balloon for a total of 4 arrows.

**Example 3:**

	Input: points = [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[4,5]]
	Output: 2
	Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
	- Shoot an arrow at x = 2, bursting the balloons [1,2] and [2,3].
	- Shoot an arrow at x = 4, bursting the balloons [3,4] and [4,5].

[Link]( https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-arrows-to-burst-balloons/)

## Notes: 
- We need to use the minimum number of arrows to burst all balloons. We can achieve this by grouping balloons that can be burst by the same arrow and using a new arrow only when it is necessary
- Same as [[8. Non-overlapping Intervals]] here we find min number of balloons that we can remove to make them non overlapping as overlapped balloons we burst when other balloon is shot hence remaining balloons will be the answer

## Solutions: 

- Solution 1: 
	```java
	
	public int findMinArrowShots(int[][] points) {
        int n = points.length;
        Arrays.sort(points, Comparator.comparingInt(i->i[1]));

        int common = 0;
        int prevEnd = points[0][1];
        for(int i=1; i<n; i++){

            if(prevEnd < points[i][0]){
                prevEnd = points[i][1];
            } else {
                common++;
                prevEnd = Math.min(prevEnd, points[i][1]);
            }
        }

        return n - common;
    }
	
	```
	Complexity: 
	- Time: O(NlogN)
	- Space: O(1)

