---
Date: 21 Jan, 2023
Tags: dsa
fileClass: Problem
---
Topics:: #SlidingWindow #Hashing 
Difficulty::  Medium
Understanding:: Need More Practice
## Problem: 
You are visiting a farm that has a single row of fruit trees arranged from left to right. The trees are represented by an integer array `fruits` where `fruits[i]` is the **type** of fruit the `ith` tree produces.

You want to collect as much fruit as possible. However, the owner has some strict rules that you must follow:

-   You only have **two** baskets, and each basket can only hold a **single type** of fruit. There is no limit on the amount of fruit each basket can hold.
-   Starting from any tree of your choice, you must pick **exactly one fruit** from **every** tree (including the start tree) while moving to the right. The picked fruits must fit in one of your baskets.
-   Once you reach a tree with fruit that cannot fit in your baskets, you must stop.

Given the integer array `fruits`, return _the **maximum** number of fruits you can pick_.

**Example 1:**

	Input: fruits = [1,2,1]
	Output: 3
	Explanation: We can pick from all 3 trees.

**Example 2:**

	Input: fruits = [0,1,2,2]
	Output: 3
	Explanation: We can pick from trees [1,2,2].
	If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees [0,1].

**Example 3:**

	Input: fruits = [1,2,3,2,2]
	Output: 4
	Explanation: We can pick from trees [2,3,2,2].
	If we had started at the first tree, we would only pick from trees [1,2].

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= fruits.length <= 105`
-   `0 <= fruits[i] < fruits.length`

[Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/fruit-into-baskets/)

## Notes: 
- Longest Subarray containing only 2 distinct fruits
- Similar to [[3. Longest substring with at most k distinct characters]] where K = 2

## Solutions: 

- Solution 1: 
	```java
	
	public int totalFruit(int[] fruits) {
       int windowStart = 0, max = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
       Map<Integer,Integer> map = new HashMap<>();

       for(int windowEnd=0; windowEnd<fruits.length; windowEnd++){
            add(map, fruits[windowEnd]);

            while(map.size() > 2){
                remove(map, fruits[windowStart++]);
            }
            max = Math.max(max, (windowEnd - windowStart + 1));
       }
       return max;
    }

    public static void add(Map<Integer, Integer> map, int item){
        map.put(item, map.getOrDefault(item,0)+1);
    }

    public static void remove(Map<Integer, Integer> map, int item){
        int count = map.get(item) - 1;
        if(count<=0)
            map.remove(item);
        else
            map.put(item, count);
    }
	
	```
	Complexity: 
	- Time: O(N)
	- Space: O(1) as at any moment we can have max 3 types of fruit stored in map